5-cgr-readme.md, before:

# Custom Gear Ratios

Change car gear ratios in GTA V.

![Menu](resources/5CGR_Menu1.png)

## Requirements

- [ScriptHookV](http://www.dev-c.com/gtav/scripthookv)

## Installation

1. Put `CustomGearRatios.asi` and the folder `CustomGearRatios` in your GTA V folder.
2. Start the game.

## Updating

Put `CustomGearRatios.asi` in your GTA V folder.
Old settings don't need to be replaced.

## Usage

To open the menu:

- Press F8, or
- Enter the "cgr" cheat in the cheat window (tilde (~)).

The key and cheat to open the menu can be changed in settings_menu.ini.

## XML files

In the folder `CustomGearRatios/Configs`, XML files can be placed with gearbox descriptions.

Layout:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<Vehicle>
    <Description>5-gear AE86</Description>
    <ModelName>Futo</ModelName>
    <PlateText>undefined</PlateText>
    <TopGear>5</TopGear>
    <DriveMaxVel>48.07</DriveMaxVel>
    <Gear0>-3.484</Gear0>
    <Gear1>3.587</Gear1>
    <Gear2>2.022</Gear2>
    <Gear3>1.384</Gear3>
    <Gear4>1.000</Gear4>
    <Gear5>0.861</Gear5>
</Vehicle>
```

- File name: Must end with .xml
- Description: In-game in-menu displayed name of the configuration
- `ModelName`: Used to match the vehicle model for auto-loading
- `PlateText`:
  - `autoload_model`: Loads the config for all vehicles with this model.
  - `undefined`: Doesn't automatically load the config.
  - Any other string: Matches the plate text to only load for specific model + plate combinations. Will override definitions for the model with `autoload_model`.
- `DriveMaxVel`: In m/s. More or less the final drive modifier.
- `Gear{X}`: Actual gear ratio for that gear
  - When not enough gears are provided for the `TopGear`, the config is invalid and will not load.

## Notes

Gear ratios are changed by the gearbox tuning and other scripts that call `MODIFY_VEHICLE_TOP_SPEED`. The script tries to revert back to the gearbox settings before this, but it's recommended to disable all functionalities in scripts that modify the top speed using the mentioned native.

Commit message:

Update mod readme format with links to releases

5-cgr-readme.md, after:

# Custom Gear Ratios

Change car gear ratios in GTA V.

![Menu](resources/5CGR_Menu1.png)

[<span style="font-size:2em;">📥 Releases</span>](https://github.com/ikt32/scripts-updates/releases?q=%22Custom+Gear+Ratios%22)

## Requirements

- Grand Theft Auto V
- [ScriptHookV](http://www.dev-c.com/gtav/scripthookv)
- A valid license [(Patreon)](https://www.patreon.com/ikt)

### Activation

A license is required to use Custom Gear Ratios v1.2.1 and newer.
You can get one by pledging on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/ikt).
The script will inform you when you need to generate or renew the license.

## Installation

1. Put `CustomGearRatios.asi` and the folder `CustomGearRatios` in your GTA V folder.
2. Start the game.

### Updating

Put `CustomGearRatios.asi` in your GTA V folder.
Old settings don't need to be replaced.

## Usage

To open the menu:

- Press F8, or
- Enter the "cgr" cheat in the cheat window (tilde (~)).

The key and cheat to open the menu can be changed in settings_menu.ini.

## XML files

In the folder `CustomGearRatios/Configs`, XML files can be placed with gearbox descriptions.

Layout:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<Vehicle>
    <Description>5-gear AE86</Description>
    <ModelName>Futo</ModelName>
    <PlateText>undefined</PlateText>
    <TopGear>5</TopGear>
    <DriveMaxVel>48.07</DriveMaxVel>
    <Gear0>-3.484</Gear0>
    <Gear1>3.587</Gear1>
    <Gear2>2.022</Gear2>
    <Gear3>1.384</Gear3>
    <Gear4>1.000</Gear4>
    <Gear5>0.861</Gear5>
</Vehicle>
```

- File name: Must end with .xml
- Description: In-game in-menu displayed name of the configuration
- `ModelName`: Used to match the vehicle model for auto-loading
- `PlateText`:
  - `autoload_model`: Loads the config for all vehicles with this model.
  - `undefined`: Doesn't automatically load the config.
  - Any other string: Matches the plate text to only load for specific model + plate combinations. Will override definitions for the model with `autoload_model`.
- `DriveMaxVel`: In m/s. More or less the final drive modifier.
- `Gear{X}`: Actual gear ratio for that gear
  - When not enough gears are provided for the `TopGear`, the config is invalid and will not load.

## Notes

Gear ratios are changed by the gearbox tuning and other scripts that call `MODIFY_VEHICLE_TOP_SPEED`. The script tries to revert back to the gearbox settings before this, but it's recommended to disable all functionalities in scripts that modify the top speed using the mentioned native.
